*NOTE: The laptop that I wrote the code on originally is currently getting repairs. By January 28th it should be repaired and return to me. When this happens I will be able to upload the actualy python files.

EXPLANATION OF THE PROJECT: I worked with my then-advisor, Professor JIllian Scudder, to compared gas phase metallicity gradients in galaxies with an active black hole to the same gradients in galaxies without, active indicating if the central supermassive black hole is attempting to accrete new material. Galaxies with an active black hole flagged in their central regions did not have metallicities in those regions (and thus were flagged as having holes), because the emission line ratios required to calculate a metallicity are altered when the ionization source produces hard radiation instead of the UV light produced by O & B type stars. Thus if a region of a galaxy is flagged as being dominated by non-stellar light, then we do not have metallicities in that region. The idea was then to check for larger-scale changes in the chemistry of a galaxy's gas content, if there is an AGN, by looking further out, where metallicities can be calculated. I compared metallicity gradients between galaxies with and without active black holes at the center. Using a data set authored by my advisor, I wrote code in Python and MySQL to analyze data from 5,000 galaxies across 8 different metallicity calculation methods. I had bi-weekly check-ins with my advisor, where we reviewed my progress and set goals to pursue over the next few days. To finish the project, I created several figures using Matplotlib to display my results. Qualitatively, although we found that galaxies with active black holes generally had slightly higher metallicities close to their center regions, the difference was not significant enough to warrant further investigation.

EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES: There are overall comparison figures for each type of metallicity calculation. On those figures are a comparison between the different types of galaxies (holes vs. no holes, or active black hole vs. not) as well as histograms displaying data of the splines that were fit to the each of the galaxies' data. Then, there are some example individual galaxy graphs, showing the difference between galaxies with and without holes. A spline is fit to the data and a cutoff point is listed if the gradient starts with a negative slope and becomes positive. The points in the separate figure below the main figure designate points where metallicity could not be calculated because it is dominated by non-stellar light.